1. Search Overview

CKAN supports 2 search modes, both a used from the same search field.

If the search terms entered into the search field contain no colon (":")
CKAN will perform a simple search. If the search expression does
contain at least one colon (":") CKAN will perform and advanced
search.


2. Simple Search
 
When using simple search you just enter search words.

There are only 3 special characters to be taken into account

+ The following search word is mandatory
- The following search is word is prohibited
" Several search words enclosed in double quotes must occur in that
  sequence. Double quotes must occur pairwise, otherwise they will
  be ignored completely

All other special characters, like e.g. "*", "?" or "=" will be
ignored.


3. Advanced search

Your search terms must contain a colon ":" to activate advanced
search.

The basic principle is that search terms are entered as 

   field:search

Example:

   title:european

Advanced search supports many special characters to achieve various
search functions


3.1 Multiple character wildcard search

To perform a multiple character wildcard search use the "*" symbol.
Multiple character wildcard searches looks for 0 or more characters

Example:

   title:europ*

3.2 Single character wild card search
 
To perform a single character wildcard search use the "?" symbol. The
single character wildcard search looks for terms that match that with
the single character replaced.

Example:

  author:eri?sson

This will match both Ericsson and Eriksson (and of course all other
letters in the location in question)

3.3 Fuzzy Searches

CKAN supports fuzzy searches based on the Levenshtein Distance, or
Edit Distance algorithm. To do a fuzzy search use the tilde, "~",
symbol at the end of a Single word Term

Example:

  author:powell~

  will also find jowell and many others

An additional (optional) parameter can specify the required
similarity. The value is between 0 and 1, with a value closer to 1
only terms with a higher similarity will be matched. For example:

  title:roam~0.8

The default that is used if the parameter is not given is 0.5.


3.4 Proximity searches

CKAN supports finding words are a within a specific distance away.  To
do a proximity search use the tilde, "~", symbol at the end of a
Phrase. 

Example:

To search for a "international" and "domestic" within 5 words of each
other in the abstract of a dataset use the search:

   extras_abstract:"international domestic"~5


3.5 Range Searches

Range Queries allow one to match datasets whose field(s) values are
between the lower and upper bound specified by the Range Query. Range
Queries can be inclusive or exclusive of the upper and lower
bounds. Sorting is done lexicographically.

Example:

   title:[2005 TO 2010]   (inclusive search)
   title:{2005 TO 2010}   (exclusive search)

Please note that the "TO" keyword needs to be spelled in CAPITAL
letters.


3.6 Boolean Operators

Boolean operators allow terms to be combined through logic
operators. CKAN supports AND, "+", OR, NOT and "-" as Boolean
operators (Note: Boolean operators must be ALL CAPS).

The AND operator is the default conjunction operator. This means that
if there is no Boolean operator between two terms, the AND operator is
used. 

The OR operator links two terms and finds a matching dataset if
either of the terms exist in a dataset. This is equivalent to a union
using sets. The symbol || can be used in place of the word OR.

To search for datasets that contain either "2005" or "2007" in their
title use the query:

Example:

   title:2005 OR title:2007


The AND operator matches datasets where both terms exist anywhere in
the text of a single dataset. This is equivalent to an intersection
using sets. The symbol && can be used in place of the word AND.

Example:

To search for datasets that contain "2005" and "2007" use the query:

   title:2005 AND title:2007

or

   title:2005 title:2007

Both searches are indentical because AND is the default operator.


+

The "+" or required operator requires that the term after the "+"
symbol exist somewhere in a the field of a single dataset.

Example:

To search for datasets that must contain "survey" and may contain
"economy" use the query:

text:+survey text:economy 

NOT

The NOT operator excludes datasets that contain the term after
NOT. This is equivalent to a difference using sets. The symbol ! can
be used in place of the word NOT.

Example: 

To search for datasets that contain "2007" but not "2005" in their
title use the query:

title:2005 NOT title:2007

Note: The NOT operator can also be used with just one term. 

Example:

The following search will all results, which are not written in
English or have no extras_language field


NOT extras_language:en

-

The "-" or prohibit operator excludes datasets that contain the term
after the "-" symbol.

Example:

To search for datasets that contain "2005" but not "2007" in their
title use the query:

title:2005 -title:2007



3.7 Grouping

CKAN supports using parentheses to group clauses to form sub
queries. This can be very useful if you want to control the boolean
logic for a query.

Example:
To search for either "jakarta" or "apache" and "website" use the query:

title:2005 AND (title:2007 OR title:survey


3.8 Field Grouping

Lucene supports using parentheses to group multiple clauses to a single field.

To search for a title that contains both the word "return" and the phrase "pink panther" use the query:

title:(+return +"pink panther")


3.9 Default field

The field called text is a virtual field containing all text from all
other fields. This field serves also as default field if you do
not specify a field name.

Example:

   title:2005 and survey

is equivalent to

   title:2005 and text:survey

Warning: If you don't specify a single field, you won't have a colon
anymore and CKAN will switch to simple search. This might lead to very
surprising results, because simple search ignores most of the
special characters used in advanced search. 


4. Available fields

Look at some datasets relevant for you search to see what fields are
available. Note that non-standard fields need to be prefixed by
extras_

Example:

  Language of the dataset might be available in a field called
  extras_language

  An abstract of the dataset might be available in a field called 
  extras_abstrtact.

Note that exact details cannot be given here because the available
fields vary in diffferent CKAN installations and/or according to the
datasets entered.


5. Further reading

CKAN uses Apache Solr as its search engine. For further details check
the documentation at

http://lucene.apache.org/core/3_6_0/queryparsersyntax.html
http://wiki.apache.org/solr/SolrQuerySyntax
http://wiki.apache.org/solr/DisMaxQParserPlugin (for simple search)

Please note that CKAN uses sometimes different values than what is
mentioned in that documentation. Also note that not the whole
functionality is offered through the simplified serach interface in
CKAN.

This description is heavily based on the original documentation. 
 
